Project Name: Surface One
Description: Minimal surfaces are a fascinating concept in mathematics and geometry, known for their unique properties and elegant shapes. A minimal surface is a surface that, within a given framework, achieves the smallest possible local area. Minimal surfaces and resting do not seem to be directly related, but there are some interesting connections between the two fields. Minimal surfaces are a surface that requires the least amount of energy to maintain its shape. Similarly, lying down is the position that requires the least amount of energy to maintain. Just as a comfortable resting position minimizes stress on the body, minimal surfaces have a balance in their curvature, minimizing tension or distortion on the surface. 
Surface one is a lounger that combines minimal surfaces and resting. The lounger is the result of a lot of testing, starting with general models for form finding. With the help of pieces of neoprene, it was possible to build several minimal surfaces on a small scale, which together formed the seat, back and leg surfaces. Initially, stretching fabric over a frame proved to be a problem because the force required to stretch the fabric over a frame had to be so high that the fabric also had to withstand the weight of a person. I then experimented with tension belts and came to the conclusion that minimal surfaces can also be woven very well with large belts. There are slots in the tube as a connection between the tube and the belt, through which the belt is inserted and then secured with a pin.
In the first 1:1 model made of steel tubes, the woven minimal surfaces proved to be very comfortable, and the shape of the lounger could also be adapted to the weight of the person.
The final prototype is made of aluminum tubing with a diameter of 25mm. The tubes were first slotted and then bent and welded. The two straps were then woven around the frame. Thanks to its minimal surface area, the lounger is very comfortable to lie on. It is also very light thanks to the use of aluminum tubing and nylon straps. The shape of the backrest allows the overall tension to be adjusted. The more pressure is exerted on the minimal surfaces, the more the cross-woven belt stretches and more extreme minimal surfaces are created. 
The dimensions of the lounger are adjusted so that it can also be used comfortably by tall people. The feet do not touch the belt and prevent the lounger from getting dirty. Surface one can be used both indoors and outdoors.
Designer: casparfischerdesign
Company: nan
Support: nan
